Design Paterns:

1. What is Design Pattern ? Explain its advantages ?

A design pattern systematically names, motivates, and explains a general design that addresses a recurring design problem in object-oriented systems. 

It describes the problem, the solution, when to apply the solution, and its consequences. It also gives implementation hints and examples. The solution is a general arrangement of objects and classes that solve the problem. The solution is customized and implemented to solve the problem in a particular context. 

2.Different Types of Design Patterns ?

There are three basic classifications of patterns: 
	1. Creational 
	2. Structural
	3. Behavioral patterns.

Creational Patterns
-------------------
Abstract Factory: 
	Creates an instance of several families of classes 

Builder: 
	Separates object construction from its representation 

Factory Method: 
	Creates an instance of several derived classes 

Prototype: 
	A fully initialized instance to be copied or cloned 

Singleton: 
	A class in which only a single instance can exist 

Structural Patterns:
-------------------

Adapter: 
	Match interfaces of different classes

Bridge: 
	Separates an object's abstraction from its implementation

Composite: 
	A tree structure of simple and composite objects

Decorator: 
	Add responsibilities to objects dynamically

Façade: 
	A single class that represents an entire subsystem

Flyweight: 
	A fine-grained instance used for efficient sharing

Proxy: 
	An object representing another object

Behavioral Patterns:
-------------------

Mediator: 
	Defines simplified communication between classes

Memento: 
	Capture and restore an object's internal state 

Interpreter: 
	A way to include language elements in a program

Iterator: 
	Sequentially access the elements of a collection

Chain of Resp: 
	A way of passing a request between a chain of objects

Command: 
	Encapsulate a command request as an object

State: 
	Alter an object's behavior when its state changes

Strategy: 
	Encapsulates an algorithm inside a class

Observer: 
	A way of notifying change to a number of classes

Template Method: 
	Defer the exact steps of an algorithm to a subclass

Visitor: 
	Defines a new operation to a class without change

3. What is Builder design pattern in Java ? When do you use Builder pattern in Java ?

4. What is Singleton pattern in Java ?

5. What is decorator pattern in Java ? Can you give an example of Decorator pattern ?

Attach additional responsibilities to an object DYNAMICALLY.

6. What is Factory pattern in Java? What is advantage of using static factory method to create object ?

A factory method pattern is a creational pattern. It is used to instantiate an object from one among a set of classes based on a logic.

7. What is Observer design pattern in Java ? When do you use Observer pattern in Java ?

8. Can you write thread-safe Singleton in Java ?
